JOHANNESBURG, 18 June 2021 – The much-anticipated #SowetoYouthGolfDay could unfortunately not take place as scheduled on 16 June 2021. This is due to protest action and road closures in various parts of Soweto on Youth Day. Fortunately, Thato (TT) Mbha, a Soweto-born entrepreneur and philanthropist, has not given up on his quest to create employment and build the township economy. Mbha has since moved the event to  Monday 21 June 2021,  supported by various stakeholders in the private and public sector, together with  Brand South Africa. The programme is open to 72 caddy golfers between the ages of 18 and 35 from in and around Soweto. This is an opportunity for the youth to build relationships with each other and the various mentors that will be participating on the day and beyond. It will take place on a first come, first admitted basis upon registration at the Soweto Golf Club. “It is the resilience in our DNA that propels us to think beyond the challenges, pressing on to find new and different ways in difficult times.  It is an inspiration to work with Play Your Part Ambassadors who live by these values. Thato ‘TT” Mbha is the true epitome of a great philanthropist,” said Sithembile Ntombela, Brand South Africa’s Acting Chief Marketing Officer. Join the conversation on #TTMbhaCaddyGolfDay About Brand South Africa Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country’s brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness. Its aim is also to build pride and patriotism among South Africans, in order to contribute to social cohesion and nation brand ambassadorship. About Play Your Part Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa.  It aims to lift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all South Africans to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. A nation of people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live is good for everyone. Play Your Part is aimed at all South Africans – from corporates and individuals, NGOs and government, churches and schools, from the young to the not-so-young.  It aims to encourage South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to a better future for all.