[Johannesburg, South Africa, April, 22, 2021]: Brand South Africa has noted the media coverage on the state of affairs in the entity. This coverage has been generated by unauthorised access to confidential and internal documents which contain inaccuracies and misinformation about developments at the entity. To this end, Brand South Africa wishes to state the facts as follows: As a responsible entity, we will not be drawn into discussions on ongoing internal matters with the media. We reiterate that the organisation has numerous management and governance structures supported by legally approved processes that address any issues that the organisation may be facing at any given point in time. It would be premature and irresponsible of us as an organisation to be commenting on ongoing unresolved legal matters within the organisation in the media. We would also like to reinforce that we are governed by the strict laws, policies and regulations of the land to do the right thing regardless of whether it is popular or not. We act according to the prescribed code of ethics and we take our responsibilities and accountabilities seriously. To conclude we wish to state that contrary to a narrative that has sought to portray the entity as one that is beleaguered or in chaos, where operations have ground to a halt, Brand South Africa continues to be an award-winning agency with senior management and staff that are committed to their role as custodians of the Nation Brand, supported by a highly competent Board of Trustees. In quarter 4 of the 2020/21 fiscal, despite the severe constraints imposed on us as a result of COVID-19, budget cuts, and a moratorium on the filling of vacancies, we achieved 92% of our targets. We have been agile in our response, and have found new and creative ways of ensuring that the mandate we are tasked with, namely to promote the Nation Brand, continues. These include: For the upcoming quarter, this status quo of productivity and performance is set to continue, with plans in place to drive both domestic and international programmes that contribute towards the promotion of a positive image of the Nation Brand. Ends///// Issued by Brand South Africa’s Board of Trustees For more information contact Thoko Modise: ThokoM@brandsouthafrica.com